# cyclistic-analysis
Google Data Analyst Certificate Case Study
Cyclistic is a bike-share company launched in 2016 based in Chicago. The Cyclistic bike-share program features over 5800 bicycles and 600 docking stations all across Chicago for cyclists to rent. Cyclistic is different from other bike rental companies in that they offer reclining bikes, hand tricycles, and cargo bikes which makes bikes more inclusive to people with disabilities that can’t use the traditional two wheeled bikes. Cyclistic offers the opportunity for users to ride for leisure or for work commutes with flexibility of their pricing plans: single-ride passes, full-day passes, and annual memberships. Cyclistic refer to consumers buying the single-ride passes and the full-day passes as casual riders and consumers who buy the annual memberships are considered Cyclistic members. Since the launch of Cyclistic in 2016, the finance analysts analyzed data at Cyclistic and concluded that annual members are more profitable than casual riders. Currently, Cyclistic users are more likely to ride for leisure, but about 30% use the bikes to commute to work each day. 

With that in mind, Cyclistic believes that increasing the number of annual members will be a key step in growing the company. Cyclistic however, does not want to create a marketing campaign that spreads awareness of the company but rather find a method to convert casual riders into members. To determine what steps Cyclistic should take in order to convert casual bike riders into members, some questions we may have to ask are:


1. How do annual members and casual riders use Cyclistic bikes differently? 

2. Why would casual riders buy Cyclistic annual memberships? 

Hypothesis:
Annual members and casual riders use Cyclistic bikes differently and as such we need to analyse the datasets that we have in order to paint a clear picture as to where they are similar and different. Similarities can be used by Cyclistic to better market their annual memberships to casual riders and therefore increase revenue in the company. We can also use the differences to determine if we can create different price options for the ways that casual riders are using Cyclistic bikes. By analyzing the day of the week that casual and member riders, I believe that we should see a correlation between higher usages over the weekend (Friday-Sunday) compared to that of member riders. With the occurence of federal holidays, I believe that Cyclistic bike riders would spike around those days and as such, Cyclistic could create cheaper deals around federal holidays. This would be similar to that of how commerce websites set-up sale discounts that last a couple days surrounding days like Easter, Valentines day, Christmas, etc. The Cyclistic datasets also have coordinates that allow me to better visualize the difference in usage of Cyclistic members and casuals. I believe that Cyclistic casual riders are more often than not using the bikes for exercise or even sight seeing within Chicago.

Analysis:
Click the other _______ to go indepth with my R code and analysis of each month. There is a ____ where I take a deep analysis of each dataset and bring the data together.
